PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
INLAND REVENUE (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 11 OF 2026
[Certified on 03rd of June, 2026]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialis t Republic of Sri Lanka of June 05, 2026
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 120.00 Pos tage : Rs. 150.00
This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 1
[Certified on 03rd of June, 2026]
L.D. - O. 14/2025
An Act to amend the Inland Revenue
Act, No. 24 of 2017
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Inland Revenue Short title and the
(Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026. date of operation
(2) The provisions of this Act, other than the provisions
of sections referred to in subsection (3) of this section, shall
come into operation on the date on which the Bill becomes
an Act of Parliament.
(3) The provisions of this Act specified in Column I of
the Table below which amend the provisions of the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 (hereinafter referred to as the
“principal enactment”) specified in Column II of that Table,
shall come into operation or be deemed to have come into
operation, as the case may be, on the respective dates as
specified in Column III of that Table.
Table
Column I Column II Column III
Section of Section of the principal Date of
this Act enactment which is amended operation
2 8 01.04.2024
3 10(2A) 08.05.2023
5 52 01.04.2025
6 52A 01.04.2025
7 59(1A) and (2) 01.04.2025
PL 15707 - 868 (03/2026)

2 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
Column I Column II Column III
Section of Section of the principal Date of
this Act enactment which is amended operation
8 68(3) 01.04.2025
9 69(1)(d), (1A) and (2A) 01.04.2025
10 72(3) 01.04.2018
11 79(1), (2) and (3) 01.04.2025
12(1)(b) 84(2)(b) 01.04.2026
12(2)(c) 84(3)(f) 01.04.2025
16 90(3) and (6) 01.04.2026
17 91(1), (3), (4), (5) and (6) 01.04.2026
18 92(1) 01.04.2026
19 94(1) 01.04.2025
21 96A 01.01.2024
35 203(6) 31.03.2025
36 Item (b) of sub-paragraph (2B) of 01.04.2022
paragraph 4 of the First Schedule
37 Sub-paragraphs (1A) and (2A) of 01.04.2026
the Second Schedule
38 Paragraph (a)(iv) of the Third 01.04.2018
Schedule
38 Paragraphs (i)(ii), (s) and (ttt) of 01.04.2025
the Third Schedule
40 Fifth Schedule 01.04.2025
41 Sixth Schedule 01.04.2024
Amendment of 2. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 8 of the amended in subsection (2) of that section as follows: -
principal
enactment
(1) by the substitution for the words “from any
source whatsoever,” of that subsection, of the
words “from other sources,”;

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 3
(2) in paragraph (a) of that subsection, by the
substitution for the words “payments; and”, of
the word “payments;”;
(3) in paragraph (b) of that subsection, by the
substitution for the word “investment.”, of the
words “investment; and”; and
(4) by the addition immediately after paragraph
(b) of that subsection, of the following new
paragraph: -
“(c) gains from the realisation of motor
vehicles.”.
3. Section 10 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
section 10 of the
amended as follows: -
principal
enactment
(1) in sub-paragraph (viii) of paragraph (b) of
subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “to a reserve or provision for
expenditures”, of the words “to a reserve or
provision for expenditures”; and
(2) in subsection (2A) of that section –
(a) in paragraph (a), by the substitution for
the words “bank draft or”, of the words
“bank draft or by depositing cash in
the second mentioned person’s bank
account or”; and
(b) in paragraph (b) –
(i) in sub-paragraph (i), by the
substitution for the words “any

4 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
payment by”, of the words “any
payment to or by”; and
(ii) in sub-paragraph (ii), by the
substitution for the words “any
payment by”, of the words
“any payment to or by”.
Amendment of 4. Section 46 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 46 of the
amended by the insertion immediately after subsection (3)
principal
enactment of that section, of the following new subsection: -
“(3A) Where a person realises an asset
by way of transfer of ownership of the asset
as a gift or donation to the Government
of Sri Lanka or any University which is
established or deemed to be established
under the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978,
the person shall be treated as deriving an
amount in respect of the realisation equal to
the net cost of the asset immediately before
the realisation.”.
Amendment of 55.. Section 52 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 52 of the amended by the addition immediately after subsection (3) of
principal
that section, of the following new subsection: -
enactment
“(4) Where the deduction of any
qualifying payment referred to in items (i)
and (v) of sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 1
of the Fifth Schedule, in terms of subsection
(1) of this section, is not possible, for any
year of assessment commencing on or after
April 1, 2025, due to the reason that the
total assessable income in the relevant year
of assessment does not exceed the amount

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 5
of the qualifying payment which shall be
deducted in arriving at the taxable income
of an individual or an entity, such amount
of the qualifying payment which is not
possible to be deducted in the relevant year
of assessment shall be carried forward and
deducted from the assessable income of the
individual or entity of the year of assessment
immediately succeeding the relevant year of
assessment or from the assessable income of
any consecutive year succeeding.”.
66.. The following new section is hereby inserted Insertion of new
immediately after section 52 of the principal enactment, and
section 52A in the
principal
shall have effect as section 52A of that enactment: - enactment
“Amounts 52A. (1) Notwithstanding anything to
from life the contrary in this Act, in calculating the
insurance
assessable income of an individual for a year
policies
of assessment under section 4, any amount
received or derived by an individual under a
life insurance policy, whether as the policy
holder or as a beneficiary of such policy,
upon-
(a) the death of the insured person;
(b) the maturity of the policy; or
(c) the surrender of the policy,
shall be excluded.
(2) Subsection (1) shall not apply to the
following payments made in connection with
or under a life insurance policy: -

6 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
(a) any amount received under a
life insurance policy, which
constitutes employment income
or business income; or
(b) any annuity, or any pension,
retirement or superannuation
payment or any payment made
under a life insurance policy
otherwise than on the death of
the insured person or maturity of
the policy.
(3) Nothing in this section shall limit or
affect the application of section 35.
(4) For the purposes of this section,
“life insurance policy” means a contract of
insurance issued by an insurer licensed under
the Regulation of Insurance Industry Act,
No. 43 of 2000, which provides for the
payment of money on the death of an
individual.”.
Amendment of 77.. Section 59 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 59 of the amended as follows: -
principal
enactment
(1) by the insertion immediately after subsection
(1) of that section, of the following new
subsection: -
“(1A) Notwithstanding the provisions
of subsection (1), with effect from the year of
assessment commencing on April 1, 2025, a
unit trust or mutual fund which fails to serve
on every unit holder a certificate containing
the details of income, exempt amounts,

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 7
withholding tax and any other information
as specified by the Commissioner-General
within five months after the end of each year
of assessment ending on the thirty first day
of March, shall be deemed to be a company
resident in Sri Lanka and the provisions of
this Act relating to companies resident in Sri
Lanka shall apply.”; and
(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the
substitution for the word and figure “subsection
(1)”, of the words and figures “subsection (1) or
(1A)”.
8. Section 68 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
section 68 of the
amended as follows: -
principal
enactment
(1) in subsection (3) of that section, by the
substitution for the words “in any year of
assessment”, of the words and figures “in any
year of assessment prior to April 1, 2025,”; and
(2) by the addition immediately after subsection
(3) of that section, of the following new
subsection: -
“(4) In the case of an institution referred
to in sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 1 of the
Fifth Schedule to this Act, with effect from
the year of assessment commencing on April
1, 2025, where the Commissioner-General
is satisfied that the cost of providing the
services specified in such sub-paragraph is
borne by such institution, the Commissioner-
General shall grant a tax credit equal to

8 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
the tax payable on the institution’s taxable
income for the year of assessment.”.
Amendment of 9. Section 69 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 69 of the amended as follows: -
principal
enactment
(1) in paragraph (d) of subsection (1) of that section,
by the substitution for the words “so employed.”,
of the following: -
“so employed:
Provided that, if such individual is a
citizen or subject of any country other than Sri
Lanka, such individual shall not, by reason of
being so deemed to be resident in Sri Lanka,
be liable to income tax as a resident in respect
of any income other than his income from the
employment on such ship:
Provided further, any individual who
is deemed to be a resident in Sri Lanka
only for the purpose of income tax under
this paragraph shall be treated as a resident
in Sri Lanka during the period he is so
employed.”; and
(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection
(1) of that section, of the following new
subsections: -
“(1A) Notwithstanding the provisions
of subsection (1), an individual shall not be a
resident in Sri Lanka for a year of assessment,
if the individual holds an Investor Category
Residence Visa issued by the Controller of
Immigration and Emigration.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 9
(2A) For the avoidance of doubt,
it is hereby declared that if an individual
leaves Sri Lanka for an employment under
a contract for a period of not less than one
year with an employer who is not associated
with the immediate Sri Lankan employer of
the individual, such individual shall not be
considered as a resident of Sri Lanka for the
period commencing on the first day of the
year of assessment in which the individual
leaves Sri Lanka and ending on the date of
expiry of such contract.”.
10. Section 72 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended by the addition immediately after subsection (2) of section 72 of the
principal
that section, of the following new subsection: -
enactment
“(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in subsection (2), a payment that has no source in
Sri Lanka shall be directly deducted in calculating
income, to the extent that such payment is incurred
during the year of assessment in relation to the export
of goods or services from Sri Lanka.”.
11. Section 79 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
section 79 of the
amended as follows: -
principal
enactment
(1) by the renumbering of that section, as subsection
(1) of that section;
(2) in the renumbered subsection (1) of that section,
by the substitution for the words “for an amount
incurred”, of the words and figures “for an
amount incurred in any year of assessment prior
to April 1, 2025,”; and

10 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
(3) by the addition immediately after the renumbered
subsection (1) of that section, of the following
new subsections: -
“(2) Where a non-resident person
who carries on business through a Sri
Lankan permanent establishment incurs
any expenditure in any year of assessment
commencing on and after April 1, 2025 in
the nature of head office expenditure, a sum
equal to –
(a) the amount of such expenditure;
or
(b) the amount equal to ten per
centum of such person’s
assessable income from such
business,
whichever is lesser, shall be deducted for
such year of assessment.
(3) For the purpose of this section,
“head office expenditure” in relation to a
non-resident person and for any year of
assessment means, the executive and general
administration expenditure incurred by or
on behalf of such person outside Sri Lanka,
including the expenditure –
(a) which comprises the aggregate
of the total income from
employment of, and the total
cost of travelling undertaken
by every employee and every

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 11
other person employed in, or
managing the affairs of any
office of such company outside
Sri Lanka; and
(b) which is incurred in respect
of any premises outside Sri
Lanka.”.
12. Section 84 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended as follows: - section 84 of the
principal
enactment
(1) in subsection (2) of that section –
(a) by the re-lettering of that subsection as
paragraph (a) of that subsection; and
(b) by the addition immediately after
the re-lettered paragraph (a) of that
subsection, of the following new
paragraph: -
“(b) With effect from the
year of assessment commencing on
April 1, 2026, such Authority shall
file a monthly tax return containing
such details and, in such manner,
as specified by the Commissioner-
General within thirty days after the
end of each calendar month.”; and
(2) in subsection (3) of that section –
(a) by the substitution for the words “This
section shall”, of the words and figures
“This section and section 84A shall”;

12 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
(b) in paragraph (e) of that subsection,
by the substitution for the words and
figure “under section 9.”, of the words
and figure “under section 9;”; and
(c) by the addition immediately after
paragraph (e) of that subsection, of the
following new paragraph: -
“(f) payment of interest or
discount by any financial
institution to an individual
resident in Sri Lanka, for
any year of assessment
commencing on or after
April 1, 2025 on any
deposit maintained by such
individual in such financial
institution, if the individual
has no taxable income for
the year of assessment and
provides a self-declaration
to the financial institution
as specified by the
Commissioner-General.”.
Amendment of 13. Section 85 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 85 of the amended in paragraph (c) of subsection (1C) of that section,
principal
by the substitution for the words “academic or any individual”
enactment
of that paragraph, of the words “academic, auditor, modeller,
personal trainer, coach, valuer, artist, actor, dancer, singer,
musician, event organizer, photographer, videographer,
therapist, counsellor, beautician, cook, electrician, dentist,
veterinarian, social media specialist, brand ambassador,
sports person, specialist for information technology,
advertising agent, advisor, translator, writer, debt collector
or any individual”.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 13
14. Section 86 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended by the addition immediately after subsection (8) of section 86 of the
principal
that section, of the following new subsection: -
enactment
“(9) The Commissioner-General may specify
the procedures, formats and forms for filing statements
required under subsections (2) and (8). Every
withholding agent shall comply with the requirements
relating to such procedures, formats and forms.”.
15. Section 87 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended by the addition immediately after subsection (5) of section 87 of the
principal
that section, of the following new subsection: -
enactment
“(6) A withholding agent shall serve a
withholding certificate on a withholdee, free of any
charge or payment.”.
16. Section 90 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended as follows: - section 90 of the
principal
enactment
(1) in the formula setout in subsection (3) of that
section-
(a) in item ‘A’ of that formula, by the sub-
stitution for the words and figures “is
the current estimated tax payable un-
der section 91 or 92 by the instalment
payer for the year of assessment;”,
of the following: -
“(a) for any year of assessment
prior to April 1, 2026, is the
estimated tax payable by the
instalment payer under section
91 or 92; and
(b) for any year of assessment
commencing on or after April

14 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
1, 2026, is the amount of tax
payable by the instalment payer
with respect to the taxable
income under paragraph (a)
of subsection (1) of section 2
in the immediately preceding
year of assessment:
Provided however,
where the instalment payer
has no taxable income for the
immediately preceding year
of assessment, or expects
to derive during the current
year of assessment a taxable
income lower than the taxable
income of the immediately
preceding year of assessment,
the estimated tax payable for
the current year of assessment
shall be considered as ‘A’. For
this purpose, the estimated tax
payable for the current year of
assessment shall be calculated
as per the procedure, and on
the basis, specified by the
Commissioner-General;”;
(b) in item ‘C’ of that formula-
(i) in paragraph (b) of that item, by
the substitution for the words
“for the year; and”, of the
words and figures “for any year
of assessment prior to the year

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 15
of assessment commencing on
April 1, 2026;”;
(ii) by the insertion immediately
after paragraph (b) of that
item, of the following new
paragraph: -
“(ba) tax withheld or to
be withheld during
the relevant year of
assessment under
Division II, from
payments received
by the person that
are included in
calculating the
person’s income
for any year
of assessment
commencing on or
after April 1, 2026;
and;”;
(iii) in the proviso to paragraph (c)
of that item, by the substitution
for the words “Provided
however, in calculating”, of the
words and figures “Provided
however, prior to the year of
assessment commencing on
April 1, 2026, in calculating”;
and
(2) by the addition immediately after subsection
(5) of that section, of the following new
subsection: -

16 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
“(6) In ascertaining the amount of tax
payable by the instalment payer for a year of
assessment commencing on or after April 1,
2026, such instalment payer may take into
account the foreign tax credit to be claimed
under section 80. However, in doing so, the
instalment payer may take into account the
foreign income tax only if the instalment
payer has paid such tax or the instalment
payer reasonably estimates that such tax will
be paid during the period corresponding to
that year of assessment.”.
Amendment of 17. Section 91 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 91 of the amended as follows: -
principal
enactment
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the
substitution for the words “for a year of
assessment”, of the words and figures “for any
year of assessment commencing prior to April 1,
2026,”;
(2) in subsection (3) of that section, by the
substitution for the words and figure “Subject
to subsection (6)”, of the words and figures
“For any year of assessment prior to the year
of assessment commencing on April 1, 2026,
subject to subsection (6)”;
(3) in subsection (4) of that section, by the
substitution for the words “In estimating tax
payable for a year of assessment”, of the words
and figures “In estimating tax payable for a year
of assessment commencing prior to April 1,
2026”;
(4) in subsection (5) of that section, by the
substitution for the words “An instalment”,

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 17
of the words and figures “Prior to the year of
assessment commencing on April 1, 2026, an
instalment”; and
(5) in subsection (6) of that section, by the
substitution for the words and figure “filed by a
person under subsection (5)”, of the words and
figures “filed by a person under subsection (5)
prior to the year of assessment commencing on
April 1, 2026,”.
18. Section 92 of the principal enactment is hereby
Amendment of
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution section 92 of the
for the words and figures “an estimate under section 91.”, of principal
enactment
the words and figures “an estimate under section 91 prior to
the year of assessment commencing on April 1, 2026.”.
19. Section 94 of the principal enactment is hereby
Amendment of
amended as follows: -
section 94 of the
principal
(1) in subsection (1) of that section – enactment
(a) in paragraph (c) of that subsection,
by the substitution for the word and
figures “section 82.”, of the words and
figures “section 82; or”; and
(b) by the addition immediately after
paragraph (c) of that subsection, of the
following new paragraph: -
“(d) an individual referred to
in paragraph (c) of this
subsection, whose interest
income for the year of
assessment does not exceed
five thousand rupees.”; and

18 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection
(2) of that section, of the following new
subsection: -
“(2A) Notwithstanding the provisions
of subsection (1), any person carrying on a
Business of Strategic Importance as approved
under the provisions of the Colombo Port
City Economic Commission Act, No. 11 of
2021 shall file a tax return in the form and
manner specified by the Commissioner-
General.”.
Amendment of 20. Section 95 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 95 of the amended as follows: -
principal
enactment
(1) by the renumbering of that section, as subsection
(1) of that section; and
(2) by the addition immediately after the renumbered
subsection (1) of that section, of the following
new subsection: -
“(2) For the avoidance of doubt, it is
hereby declared that a capital gains tax return
shall result in a self-assessment only for the
payment of tax under section 82.”.
Insertion of new 21. The following new section is hereby inserted
section 96A in the
immediately after section 96 of the principal enactment, and
principal
enactment shall have effect as section 96A of that enactment: -
“Applicability 96A. (1) Where an employee is in
of the tax credit receipt of any arrears of salary in a year of
for salary
assessment, such employee shall be entitled
arrears
to a tax credit calculated in accordance with

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 19
subsection (2). Such tax credit may be
deducted from the income tax payable by such
employee on his employment income for that
year of assessment.
(2) The tax credit referred to in subsection
(1) shall be calculated according to the
following formula: -
A = B – C
where: ‘A’ is the tax credit allowed under
this section which shall not
exceed the income tax payable
by the employee on the arrears
of salary for the current year of
assessment;
‘B’ is the income tax payable by
the employee on the arrears
of salary for the current year
of assessment which is equal
to the income tax payable on
the aggregated employment
income of the current year
of assessment including the
arrears of salary, less the income
tax payable on the aggregated
employment income excluding
the arrears of salary;
‘C’ is the income tax payable,
as calculated in terms of the
applicable tax law for each
previous year of assessment in
which the arrears of salary are
derived.

20 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
(3) In this section, “arrears of salary”
means, gains and profits from employment
received by an employee in the current
year of assessment but in relation to any
previous year of assessment from the same
employment, as a result of reinstatement in
service of an employment or re-appointment
to the same employment after a disciplinary
action, promotion to a post with effect from a
previous date, entitlement to any remuneration
increment with effect from a previous date
of a previous year of assessment and similar
reasons as specified by the Commissioner-
General.
(4) Tax credit granted under this section
shall be considered by the Commissioner-
General in specifying the circumstances under
which the Advance Personal Income Tax shall
be deducted under section 83A.
(5) The Commissioner-General shall pay
any refund claim on the application of this
section within three months of the date of the
refund claim made by the employee, prior to
a tax audit.”.
Amendment of 22. Section 100 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 100 of the amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the insertion
principal
immediately after paragraph (h) of that subsection, of the
enactment
following new paragraphs: -
“(ha) the Director of the Financial Intelligence Unit of
the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, for the purpose
of performing and discharging the duties and
functions relating to anti-money laundering
and countering the financing of terrorism under
the provisions of the Prevention of Money

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 21
Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006, the Convention
on the Suppression of Terrorist Financing Act,
No. 25 of 2005 and the Financial Transactions
Reporting Act, No. 6 of 2006;
(hb) the Inspector-General of Police, for the purpose
of performing and discharging the duties and
functions relating to anti-money laundering
and countering the financing of terrorism
under the provisions of the Prevention of
Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006 and the
Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist
Financing Act, No. 25 of 2005;
(hc) the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards
Monitoring Board established under the Sri
Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act,
No. 15 of 1995, for the purpose of performing
and discharging the duties and functions of such
Board under that Act;”.
23. Section 102 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
section 102 of
amended by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)
the principal
of that section, of the following new subsection: -
enactment
“(1A) Every company incorporated or registered
in Sri Lanka, shall register with the Commissioner-
General not later than thirty days from the date of such
incorporation or registration.”.
24. Section 103 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
section 103 of
amended by the addition immediately after subsection (5) of
the principal
that section, of the following new subsections: -
enactment
“(6) (a) The Commissioner-General shall issue a
TIN Certificate to every person who is assigned a TIN
under this section.

22 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
(b) With effect from April 1, 2026, a person
specified under subsection (3) of section 102 shall be
required to submit the TIN Certificate for each of the
purposes specified in Column I of the Table below and
it shall be the responsibility of the relevant official
specified in the corresponding entry in Column II of
that Table to ensure compliance by that person of such
requirement: -
Table
Column I Column II
Purpose Relevant official
to open any account at any Manager of the financial
financial institution institution
to obtain approval for a Chairman, Director
building plan Enforcement or
Commissioner of the Local
Authority
to register a motor vehicle Commissioner-General of
Motor Traffic
to renew the licence of a Provincial Revenue
motor vehicle Commissioner or
Divisional Secretary
to register a land or title to Registrar-General of
a land the Registrar General’s
Department
to register a business Divisional Secretary
to transfer shares of a Registrar-General of
company incorporated in Companies
Sri Lanka, by the transferee
and transferor
to obtain a credit card Manager of the bank or
credit card issuing entity

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 23
(c) For the purpose of this subsection, the Commissioner-
General and the relevant official specified in paragraph (b),
may enter into an agreement for an alternative method of
verifying the TIN Certificate.
(d) The Commissioner-General may issue
guidelines for the effective implementation of the
provisions of this subsection.
(7) The provisions of this section shall not
apply to –
(a) a person whose registration has been
refused by the Commissioner-General
under the provisions of section 102; or
(b) a person who is restrained from
obtaining a TIN Certificate in terms of
the provisions of any other written law.
(8) For the purposes of this Act, a TIN shall not
be a secret or confidential information.”.
25. Section 113 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
section 113 of
amended as follows: -
the principal
enactment
(1) in subsection (1B) of that section, by the
substitution for the words and figures “Subject
to subsection (1C),”, of the words and figures
“Subject to subsections (1C) and (1D),”; and
(2) by the addition immediately after subsection
(1C) of that section, of the following new
subsection: -

24 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
“(1D) With effect from the year of
assessment commencing on April 1, 2025,
a senior citizen shall file such person’s tax
returns either in writing or electronically
through a computer system or mobile
electronic device.”.
Amendment of 26. Section 135 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 135 of the
amended by the addition immediately after subsection (6) of
principal
enactment that section, of the following new subsection: -
“(7) With effect from the year of assessment
commencing on April 1, 2025, where an individual,
for any year of assessment (in this subsection referred
to as the “current year of assessment”), has-
(a) filed a return of income and declared
the tax payable with respect to such
individual’s taxable income under
paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of
section 2, in an amount not less than
one hundred and twenty per centum
of the tax payable on the taxable
income for the year of assessment
immediately preceding the current year
of assessment;
(b) paid the full amount of tax without
claiming a tax refund; and
(c) furnished an affidavit stating that
no fraud, evasion, or willful default
has been committed in relation to the
tax payable for the current year of
assessment,

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 25
such return shall be accepted as filed, and no amended
or additional assessment shall be made on such return
under this section for the current year of assessment.”.
27. Section 150 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended as follows: - section 150 of the
principal
enactment
(1) by the repeal of the proviso to paragraph (a)
of subsection (2A) of that section and the
substitution therefor, of the following proviso: -
“Provided that, if such resident
individual is a senior citizen who is not an
instalment payer and his refund claim prior to
April 1, 2025 is not exceeding sixty thousand
rupees for a year of assessment or fifteen
thousand rupees for any quarter ending on
the thirtieth day of June, thirtieth day of
September, thirty first day of December and
thirty first day of March, such refund claim
made prior to June 30, 2025, shall be paid
within three months of the date of the refund
claim made by such resident individual, prior
to a tax audit.”; and
(2) by the addition immediately after subsection
(4) of that section, of the following new
subsection: -
“(5) Where a person includes an amount
in calculating such person’s income under
cash basis accounting and any amount thereof
is later refunded due to the cancellation
or alteration of the original contract, such
person is entitled to apply for the refund of
the excess income tax paid on the refunded

26 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
amount as a refund under this section, if such
person applies for the refund of such excess
income tax within thirty months from the
date of refund of the amount included in
calculating his income.”.
Amendment of 28. Section 163 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 163 of the
amended as follows: -
principal
enactment
(1) in subsection (2) of that section, by the
substitution for the words “Where a person”, of
the words and figures “Prior to April 1, 2026,
where a person”;
(2) in subsection (3) of that section, by the
substitution for the words “In any proceedings”,
of the words and figures “Prior to April 1, 2026,
in any proceedings”;
(3) in subsection (4) of that section, by the
substitution for the words “In any proceedings”,
of the words and figures “Prior to April 1, 2026,
in any proceedings”;
(4) by the insertion immediately after subsection
(4) of that section, of the following new
subsections: -
“(4A) (a) With effect from the year of
assessment commencing on April 1, 2026,
where a person fails to pay tax when it is
due, the Commissioner-General may submit
a certificate containing particulars of the
defaulter, as specified in subsection (4B)
to the Magistrate of the Magistrate’s Court
within the local limits of whose jurisdiction

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 27
the defaulter resides or the place of business
of the defaulter is situated:
Provided that, no such certificate shall
be submitted where a taxpayer has requested
for an administrative review of the tax
payable pursuant to section 139 or appealed
to the Tax Appeals Commission pursuant
to subsection (1) of section 140 and such
application is pending.
(b) Upon receipt of the certificate
referred to in paragraph (a), the Magistrate
shall summon the defaulter before him to
show cause as to why further proceedings
shall not be taken against such defaulter for
the recovery of the tax in default.
(c) Where the defaulter fails to show
sufficient cause to the satisfaction of the
Magistrate, the tax in default shall be deemed
to be a fine imposed by a sentence of the
Magistrate on such defaulter for an offence
punishable with fine only and not punishable
with imprisonment.
(d) The provisions of subsection (1)
of section 291, except the provisions of
paragraphs (a), (d) and (i) of that subsection,
of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No.
15 of 1979 relating to default of payment
of a fine imposed for such an offence shall
thereupon apply, and the Magistrate may
make any direction which, by the provisions
of that subsection, the Magistrate could have
made at the time of imposing such sentence.

28 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
(4B) The certificate referred to in
subsection (4A) shall contain particulars of
tax, interest, penalty or any other amount
payable under this Act including any tax,
interest, penalty or other amount payable
prior to the date on which this subsection
comes into operation, the name and the last
known address of the place of business or
residence of the defaulter.
(4C) Unless the Commissioner-General
has granted an extension of the time for
payment of tax under section 151, the
correctness of any statement in a certificate
submitted by the Commissioner-General
for the purpose of subsection (4A), shall
not be called in question or examined by
the Magistrate in any proceedings under
this section and accordingly, nothing in
that subsection shall be read and construed
as authorising a Magistrate to consider or
decide the correctness of any statement in
such certificate or to postpone or defer such
proceedings for a period exceeding thirty
days.
(4D) Nothing in subsections (2) to (5)
of section 291 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall apply in
any case referred to in subsection (4A).
(4E) In any case referred to in subsection
(4A) in which the defaulter is sentenced to
imprisonment in default of payment of the
fine deemed by that subsection to have been
imposed on him, subject to subsection (6), the

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 29
Magistrate may allow time for the payment
of the amount of that fine or direct payment
of that amount to be made in instalments.
(4F) The Magistrate may require bail
to be given as a condition precedent to
allowing time to show cause as provided in
subsection (4A) or for the payment of the fine
under subsection (4E), and the provisions of
Chapter XXXIV of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall apply,
where the defaulter is so required to give bail.
(4G) Where the Magistrate directs under
subsection (4E) that the payment be made
in instalments, and default is made in the
payment of any one of such instalments, the
proceedings may be taken as if default had
been made in payment of all the instalments
then remaining unpaid.
(4H) In any proceeding under subsection
(4A), the Commissioner-General’s certificate
shall be sufficient evidence that the tax has
been duly assessed and is in default, and any
plea that the tax is excessive, incorrect, or
under appeal, shall not be entertained.”;
(5) in subsection (5) of that section, by the
substitution for the words and figure “in
subsection (3)”, of the words and figures “in
subsection (3) or subsection (4A)”; and
(6) in subsection (6) of that section, by the
substitution for the words and figure “in

30 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
subsection (3).”, of the words and figures “in
subsection (3) or subsection (4A).”.
Insertion of new 29. The following new section is hereby inserted
section 175A
immediately after section 175 of the principal enactment,
in the principal
enactment and shall have effect as section 175A of that enactment: -
“Service of 175A. Notwithstanding the provisions of
summons and
section 100, where the Commissioner-General
notices
or any court has issued any notice or notice to
appear or summons under the provisions of
this Chapter, and the Commissioner-General
or such court has been unable to serve or
cause to serve such notice or summons on
the relevant person, it shall be lawful for
the Commissioner-General or such court,
after recording the reasons in writing for
the inability to serve or cause to serve such
notice or summons, to publish the details of
such notice or summons in any newspaper
circulating in Sinhala, English and Tamil
languages for the purpose of giving due notice
thereof.”.
Insertion of new 30. The following new section is hereby inserted
section 178A
immediately after section 178 of the principal enactment,
in the principal
enactment and shall have effect as section 178A of that enactment: -
“Non 178A. (1) A withholding agent who fails to
compliance by comply with the requirements specified under
withholding
agents and subsection (9) of section 86, shall subject to
individuals subsection (2), be liable to a penalty of a sum
not exceeding two hundred thousand rupees
for a year of assessment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 31
(2) (a) Prior to assessing the penalty under
subsection (1), the Commissioner-General
shall issue a notice of warning.
(b) No penalty shall be imposed under
subsection (1), where the withholding agent
complies with the notice of warning issued
under paragraph (a) within fourteen days
from the date of service of the notice.
(3) An individual who provides a self-
declaration under paragraph (f) of subsection
(3) of section 84, with false or misleading
particulars, shall subject to subsection (4), be
liable to a penalty of a sum not exceeding two
hundred thousand rupees.
(4) Prior to assessing the penalty under
subsection (3), the Commissioner-General
shall issue a notice to the individual with
details of false and misleading particulars
contained in the self-declaration provided by
such individual.
(5) An individual who is subjected to a
penalty under subsection (3) shall not be
entitled to submit a self-declaration in lieu
of the declaration on which a notice has been
issued under subsection (4).”.
31. The following new Chapter is hereby inserted Insertion of new
CHAPTER XVIIA
immediately after section 185 of the principal enactment, and in the principal
enactment
shall have effect as CHAPTER XVIIA of that enactment: -

32 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
“CHAPTER XVIIA
PROSECUTION OF OFFENCES
Prosecution of 185A. (1) Where any person fails to –
offences
relating to
(a) file with the Commissioner-
returns, &c.,
General an annual statement
as required by section 86;
(b) file with the Commissioner-
General a return of income
under section 93;
(c) register with the
Commissioner-General as
required under section 102;
(d) appear before the
Commissioner-General in
compliance with a notice
given under section 123;
and
(e) furnish a tax return under
section 126,
the Commissioner-General shall serve a notice
in writing on such person stating that legal
proceedings will be instituted against him
under this section, unless he takes necessary
steps to comply with the provisions of this
Act, within thirty days of serving the notice.
(2) Any person who fails, without
reasonable cause to comply with the notice
of the Commissioner-General issued under

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 33
subsection (1), commits an offence under this
Act, and shall on conviction after summary
trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not
exceeding four hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment of either description for a term
not exceeding six months or to both such fine
and imprisonment.”.
32. Section 193 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
section 193 of the
amended as follows: -
principal
enactment
(1) in subsection (2) of that section, by the
substitution for the words “writing to do
so.”, of the words and figure “writing to do
so and complies with the order referred to in
subsection (1).”;
(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection
(2) of that section, of the following new
subsection: -
“(2A) (a) Where any person makes a
request for compounding an offence, such
person shall undertake to withdraw any
appeal filed by him and any ground of appeal
contained in such appeal, insofar as such
appeal or such ground relates to the offence
sought to be compounded.
(b) Where an appeal contains
grounds relating to the offence sought to be
compounded and grounds relating to other
matters under this Act, the undertaking
referred to in paragraph (a) shall apply only
to the grounds relating to the offence sought
to be compounded, and the appeal may

34 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
continue in respect of the grounds relating to
other matters.”; and
(3) by the addition immediately after subsection
(7) of that section, of the following new
subsections: -
“(8) The Commissioner-General may
specify the fee to be charged, when making
a request for compounding an offence under
this section.
(9) The Commissioner-General shall
not compound an offence under this section,
if such offence is directly related to, or
connected with an offence under any other
written law, or an investigation conducted by
any law enforcement agency.”.
Amendment of 33. Section 195 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 195 of the amended as follows: -
principal
enactment
(1) by the repeal of sub-paragraph (iv) of paragraph
(a) of the definition of the expression “authorised
representative”, and the substitution therefor, of
the following sub-paragraph: -
“(iv) a member of the Chartered Institute
of Taxation of Sri Lanka established
under the Sri Lanka Institute of
Taxation (Incorporation) Act, No. 21
of 2000;”;
(2) by the insertion immediately after the definition
of the expression “Company”, of the following
new definition: -

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 35
““Controller of Immigration and
Emigration” means the
Controller of Immigration and
Emigration appointed under
section 4 of the Immigrants and
Emigrants Act (Chapter 351);”;
(3) in the definition of the expression “interest”-
(a) by the repeal of paragraph (a) and the
substitution therefor, of the following
paragraph: -
“(a) a payment, including a discount
or premium, made under a
debt obligation that is not a
repayment of capital;”; and
(b) by the repeal of paragraph (c) and the
substitution therefor, of the following
paragraph: -
“(c) a commitment, guarantee or
service fee paid in respect
of a debt obligation or swap
agreement; and”; and
(4) in the definition of the expression “non-
governmental organization”, by the substitution
for the words “does not include an approved
charity;”, of the words and figure “does not
include a charitable institution referred to in
sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 1 of the Fifth
Schedule to this Act;”.
34. Section 202 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended by the insertion immediately after subsection (2) section 202 of the
principal
of that section, of the following new subsection: - enactment

36 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
“(2A) For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby
declared that subsection (2) shall not apply –
(a) to the deduction of any amount under
this Act if such amount has been
deducted under section 32, section 33,
or section 34 of the repealed Act for
any year of assessment prior to April
1, 2018, notwithstanding that any un-
deducted balance of such deduction
under the repealed Act remains as at
April 1, 2018;
(b) to any claim of notional tax credit
under section 137 or section 138 of the
repealed Act, or any other tax credit
granted under the repealed Act for any
year of assessment commencing on or
after April 1, 2018; and
(c) to the application of any tax rate or tax
exemption under the repealed Act for
any year of assessment commencing
on or after April 1, 2018.”.
Amendment of 35. Section 203 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 203 of the amended by the addition immediately after subsection (5) of
principal
enactment that section, of the following new subsection: -
“(6) Where a concessionary tax rate is applicable
to the whole or any part of the profits and income of a
person in terms of the provisions of the Inland Revenue
Act, No. 10 of 2006 for any period as specified in
the relevant provisions of such Act and the period so

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 37
specified has not expired as at March 31, 2018, such
concessionary tax rate shall continue to apply until the
expiration of the period so specified:
Provided however, any such concessionary tax
rate shall not be applicable after March 31, 2025.”.
36. The First Schedule to the principal enactment is Amendment of
hereby amended as follows: - the First Schedule
to the principal
enactment
(1) in item (a) of sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph
1 of that Schedule, by the substitution for the
words and figures “at the rate of 10%;”, of the
following: -
“at the rate of –
(i) 10%, prior to the date on which
the provisions referred to in
subsection (2) of section 1
come into operation; and
(ii) 15%, with effect from the
date on which the provisions
referred to in subsection (2) of
section 1 come into operation;”;
(2) in item (a) of sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph
2 of that Schedule, by the substitution for the
words and figures “at the rate of 10%; and”, of
the following: -
“at the rate of –
(i) 10%, prior to the date on which
the provisions referred to in
subsection (2) of section 1
come into operation; and

38 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
(ii) 15%, with effect from the
date on which the provisions
referred to in subsection (2) of
section 1 come into operation;
and”;
(3) in item (a) of sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph
3 of that Schedule, by the substitution for the
words and figures “at the rate of 10%; and”, of
the following : -
“at the rate of –
(i) 10%, prior to the date on which
the provisions referred to in
subsection (2) of section 1
come into operation; and
(ii) 30%, with effect from the
date on which the provisions
referred to in subsection (2) of
section 1 come into operation;
and”;
(4) in item (b) of sub-paragraph (2B) of paragraph
4 of that Schedule, by the substitution for the
words “any liquor or tobacco product-”, of the
words “any liquor or tobacco product, other than
the export of such product –”;
(5) in item (a) of sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph
5 of that Schedule, by the substitution for the
words and figures “at the rate of 10%; and”, of
the following: -

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 39
“at the rate of –
(i) 10%, prior to the date on which
the provisions referred to in
subsection (2) of section 1
come into operation; and
(ii) 30%, with effect from the
date on which the provisions
referred to in subsection (2) of
section 1 come into operation;
and”; and
(6) in item (a) of sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph
7 of that Schedule, by the substitution for the
words and figures “at the rate of 10%; and”, of
the following : -
“at the rate of –
(i) 10%, prior to the date on which
the provisions referred to in
subsection (2) of section 1
come into operation; and
(ii) 30%, with effect from the
date on which the provisions
referred to in subsection (2) of
section 1 come into operation;
and”.
37. The Second Schedule to the principal enactment is Amendment
hereby amended in paragraph 1 of that Schedule as follows: - of the Second
Schedule to the
principal
(1) in sub-paragraph (1A) of that paragraph, by the enactment
substitution for the words “Fourth Schedule.”,
of the following: -

40 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
“Fourth Schedule:
Provided that, the Board of Investment
of Sri Lanka shall have specifically approved
the expansion of such existing undertaking
for such person to be eligible for the enhanced
capital allowance under this sub-paragraph.”;
and
(2) by the insertion immediately after sub-paragraph
(2) of that paragraph, of the following new sub-
paragraph: -
“(2A) A capital allowance equal to
100% of the investment made by a person
in depreciable assets in a new undertaking,
other than intangible assets, during a year of
assessment shall be granted to such person
for that year of assessment, if the total
investment in such depreciable assets that
are used in such undertaking in any part of
Sri Lanka exceeds USD 250,000, but does
not exceed USD 3 million.”.
Amendment of the 38. The Third Schedule to the principal enactment is
Third Schedule hereby amended as follows: -
to the principal
enactment
(1) by the repeal of sub-paragraph (iv) of paragraph
(a) of that Schedule and the substitution therefor,
of the following sub-paragraph: -
“(iv) A. any Government assisted private
school other than that incorporated
under the Companies Act, No. 07
of 2007 which is registered with the
Ministry of Education and mandated

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 41
to follow the circulars issued by the
Government and the Ministry of
Education;
B. for the purposes of this
sub-paragraph, a “Government
assisted private school” means, a
private school that regularly receives
assistance from the Government,
whether in the form of monetary
support or of essential goods
required for its functioning;”;
(2) in sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (i) of that
Schedule, by the substitution for the words “by
such person;”, of the words “by such person,
subject to the conditions that the loan amount
is remitted to Sri Lanka in foreign currency
through a bank, and the loan proceeds are used
within Sri Lanka;”;
(3) in paragraph (s) of that Schedule, by the
substitution for the word and figures “section
84.”, of the words and figures “section 84, to
the extent that each amount derived by each
such person is shown in the monthly tax return
submitted by the National Gem and Jewellery
Authority established by the National Gem and
Jewellery Authority Act, No. 50 of 1993.”;
(4) by the insertion immediately after paragraph
(tt) of that Schedule, of the following new
paragraph: -
“(ttt) any amount derived on or after
April 1, 2025, by any non-resident

42 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
person as any payment for air craft,
software licences or as for other
related services from the Sri Lanka
Air Force;”; and
(5) in paragraph (x) of that Schedule, by the
substitution for the words “up to the extent
provided for in that Act, for each year of
assessment.”, of the words “subject to the
provisions of that Act, and any regulations made
thereunder.”.
Amendment 39. The Fourth Schedule to the principal enactment is
of the Fourth hereby amended in item (b) of sub-paragraph (5) of paragraph
Schedule to the
2 of that Schedule, by the substitution for the words “in a
principal
enactment transportation or”, of the words “in a transportation or”.
Amendment of 40. The Fifth Schedule to the principal enactment is
the Fifth Schedule hereby amended by the repeal of item (i) of sub-paragraph
to the principal
(a) of paragraph 1 of that Schedule and the substitution
enactment
therefor, of the following item: -
“(i) A. a charitable institution established for the
provision of institutionalized care for the sick or
the needy; or
B. on or after April 1, 2025, an institution
incorporated, or registered under any law
in force for the registration of social service
organizations that provide healthcare facilities
in collaboration with healthcare or education
services of the Government; and”.
Amendment of the 41. The Sixth Schedule to the principal enactment is
Sixth Schedule
hereby amended in sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 4 of
to the principal
enactment that Schedule, by the substitution for the words “for a year

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026 43
of assessment”, of the words and figures “for a year of
assessment prior to April 1, 2025,”.
42. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), the Writing off any
interest on
Commissioner-General shall write off any interest on
underpayments
underpayments and late payments chargeable and remaining and late
outstanding under the following Acts: – payments
(a) section 157 of the principal enactment, up to the
year of assessment ending on March 31, 2025;
(b) the Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14 of 2022; or
(c) the Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018, on debt
repayment levy.
(2) The Commissioner-General shall write off interest
specified in subsection (1), subject to the condition that the
full amount of tax and any applicable penalties excluding
any amount waived off by the Commissioner-General for the
relevant year of assessment are paid prior to the expiration of
a period of six months from the date on which the provisions
referred to in subsection (2) of section 1 come into
operation.
(3) For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that –
(a) where a taxpayer has fulfilled the condition
specified in subsection (2) prior to the
date on which the provisions referred to
in subsection (2) of section 1 come into
operation, the Commissioner-General shall
consider such taxpayer as having complied
with the requirements of subsection (2);

44 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026
(b) for the purpose of the application of this
section, the Commissioner-General shall
consider the years of assessments or taxable
periods separately; and
(c) where the principal amount of any tax
payment has been applied as interest
relating to the tax by the Commissioner-
General under section 154 of the principal
enactment, the amount so applied as interest
shall be treated as the principal amount of
tax solely for the purpose of the application
of this section.
Sinhala text to 43. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
prevail in case of and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
inconsistency

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “prakashana piyasa”, Department of
Government Printing, No. 118, Dr. Danister De Silva Mawatha, Colombo 8.