Tax Flash News
Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 1 1
of 2026
The Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 11 of 2026 has been
certified by the Speaker on 03 June 2026 and published as a
Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka on 05 June 2026.
June 2026
1

Tax Flash News June 2026
Key Highlights
The Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 11 of 2026 introduces
several significant changes, key highlights of which are outlined
below.
1. Tax Rates , Reliefs and 2. Registration & Taxpayer
Incentives Obligations
CGT Rate Revision Registration of companies
Enhanced Capital Allowance Mandatory TIN Requirement
Rate increase from 01 July 2026
Disclosure of Taxpayer
Qualifying Payment reliefs
Information
3. Income Tax payment & 4. Enforcement and Court
Compliance proceedings
SET and Return filing Court Proceedings for Tax
Defaults
Instalment Payment Basis
Prosecution of Offences
Changes to Withholding
Tax/ Advanced Income Tax
5. Residency, Write-off of Interest, Definitions and Other Amendments
Definitions and other amendments
Residency status updates
including write-off of interest
6. Amendments Withdrawn /Updated
2

Tax Flash News June 2026
1a.
Capital Gains Tax Revisions
• CGT rates increased for Individuals, Partnerships, Trusts, Unit
Trusts, Mutual Funds and NGOs — effective from the date of
enactment.
• Self-assessment: The CGT Return shall be treated as a self-
assessment for the purpose of CGT paid.
• Filing & payment: CGT must be paid to the IRD and the Return
filed within 30 days after the end of the relevant calendar month
in which the realization occurred.
Rate increase from enactment of the Act 15%
10%
on Individuals and Partnerships
30%
Rate increase from enactment of the Act
10%
on Trusts, Unit Trusts, Mutual
Funds & NGOs
4

Tax Flash News June 2026
1b.
Enhanced Capital Allowances
Second Schedule
• With effect from 1 April 2026, Investments in depreciable assets
(excluding intangible assets) ranging from USD 250,000 to USD 3
million, in any part of Sri Lanka, will qualify for an enhanced
capital allowance of 100%.
• Enhanced capital allowances are available to persons who have
entered into an agreement with the Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka (BOI) and undertake approved expansions of existing
operations, provided such expansion is specifically approved by
the BOI.
14.
5

Tax Flash News June 2026
1c.
Qualifying Payments and Reliefs
• Any unutilized portion of Qualifying
Payments made to specified Government
Institutions, where the assessable
Carry Forward of income is insufficient, such payments
Unutilized Qualified could be deducted in the immediately
Payments succeeding or subsequent Years of
Assessment.
.
Effective from 1 April 2025
• Donations to institutions incorporated
or registered under laws governing
social service organizations that
provide healthcare in collaboration
5% with Government healthcare or
education services shall be treated as
Donations to approved
Qualifying Payments, subject to
Charitable Institutions
statutory limits.
• Such institutions will also be granted a
tax credit for the cost of services
provided, subject to CGIR approval.
Expected Economic
Growth in 2026. Effective from 1 April 2025
• Amounts received from a life insurance
policy by the holder or beneficiary upon
death, maturity, or surrender shall not be
included in calculating assessable
income.
Amounts received from • This exclusion does not apply to
Life Insurance policy insurance payments treated as
employment or business income, nor to
annuities, pensions, or superannuation
benefits.
Effective from 1 April 2025
6

Tax Flash News June 2026
1d.
Tax credit for salary Arrears
• With effect from 1 January 2024, employees who receive
arrears of salary in a year of assessment shall be entitled to a
tax credit, calculated in accordance with the relevant statutory
provisions. Such tax credit may be set off against the income
tax payable on their employment income for that year of
assessment.
1e.
.
Exclusion of Motor Vehicle Gains
5%
• With effect from 1 April 2024, In calculating “other income”
under the IRA, gains derived from the disposal of motor
vehicles are excluded.
1f.
Expected Economic
Growth in 2026.
Deduction allowed for payments made outside SL
linked to Exports
• With effect from 1 April 2018, payments with no Sri Lankan
7.
source that are incurred during the year in relation to exports
of goods or services are fully deductible when calculating
income.
7

Tax Flash News June 2026
62.a.
.
Registration and requirement for TIN
• Company registration
With effect from the enactment of the Act, every company
incorporated or registered in Sri Lanka, shall register with the CGIR
not later than 30 days from the date of such incorporation or
registration.
• Mandatory TIN verification
Effective from 1 April 2026, relevant officials have been mandated to
verify that a person holds a TIN before permitting any of the
following activities ;
▪ Opening a bank account
▪ Obtaining approval for a building plan
▪ Registration of a motor vehicle
Exp▪ecteRde nEecwonaol moifc m otor vehicle license
Growth in 2026.
▪ Registration of a land or title to land
▪ Transfer of shares of a company incorporated in Sri Lanka
▪ Obtaining a credit card
• Confidentiality of TIN
From the enactment of the Act, a TIN will no longer be treated as
confidential or secret information
9

Tax Flash News June 2026
2b.
Disclosure of Taxpayer Information
• The law has been amended to permit taxpayer information to be
shared with specified public institutions, solely for the purpose
of carrying out their official duties relating to financial crime
prevention and regulatory oversight with effect from the
enactment of the Act.
• Institutions authorized to receive such information include:
– The Financial Intelligence Unit
– The Sri Lanka Police
– The Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards
Monitoring Board
• Confidentiality obligations remain applicable to all such
institutions in respect of information received.
2c.
Service of Summons or Notices
• From the enactment of the Act, where a notice or summons
cannot be served on a person by the CGIR or a Court, the
details may be published in a newspaper circulating in Sinhala,
English, and Tamil, provided the reasons for the inability to
effect service are recorded in writing.
10

Tax Flash News June 2026
3a.
6.
SET/ Return Filing Requirements & Compliance
Obligations
The requirement to submit the SET has been
discontinued and such discontinuation would
Statement of Estimated
apply to all taxpayers
Tax Payable (SET)
With effect from 1 April 2026
Employment Income subject to APIT and
Return filing not
interest income less than LKR 5,000
required
With effect from 1 April 2025
Senior citizens may submit their tax Returns
Return filing for senior
either in writing or electronically, using a
citizens
computer or mobile device.
With effect from 1 April 2025
Expected Economic A Business of Strategic Importance must file a
Return filing for Port
Growth in 2026. Return as specified by CGIR
City companies
With effect from enactment of the Act
Required to submit monthly returns as
National Gem and
specified by the CGIR
Jewelry Authority
With effect from 1 April 2026
12

Tax Flash News June 2026
3b.
Installment Payments and compliance measures
With effect from 1 April 2026;
• The instalment payments are required to be computed based on
the taxable income of the immediately preceding year.
• Where the instalment payer had no taxable income in the
previous year or expects lower taxable income in the current
year, taxpayers may instead base instalment payments on the
estimated tax liability for the current year.
• This estimated tax must be calculated according to the procedure
and basis specified by the CGIR.
• Tax withheld or to be withheld could be considered when
calculating a person’s income for the Year of Assessment.
• Foreign tax credits are claimable in determining tax payable,
subject to conditions.
13

Tax Flash News June 2026
3c.
Compliance measures – Unit Trust and Mutual Funds
With effect from 1 April 2025;
• Any Unit Trust or Mutual Fund that fails to issue each unit holder
a certificate within five months after the end of the Year of
Assessment, containing details of income, exempt amounts,
withholding tax, and other information required by the CGIR,
shall be treated as a company resident in Sri Lanka, with all
applicable provisions applying accordingly.
3d.
Refund Claims for Senior Citizens
• A resident individual who is a senior citizen and not an instalment
payer, and who has made a refund claim prior to 1 April 2025 not
exceeding LKR 60,000 per year or LKR 15,000 per quarter, is
entitled to receive the refund within 3 months from the date of the
claim, prior to a tax audit, provided the claim is submitted before
30 June 2025.
14

Tax Flash News June 2026
3e.
6.
Reforms to Withholding Tax/Advance Income Tax
Interest/discount on deposits paid to resident
individuals not subject to AIT if no taxable
Interest/discount
income and self-declaration is submitted
on deposits
– effective from 1 April 2025.
Scope expanded to include a wide range of
professions as follows;
personal trainer, coach, valuer, artist, actor,
dancer, singer, musician , event organize,
photographer, videographer, therapist,
Expansion of WHT
counsellor, beautician, cook, electrician, dentist,
scope
veterinarian, social media specialist, brand
ambassador, sportsperson, specialist for
information technology, advertising agent,
advisor, Translator, writer, debt collector or any
individual.
– effective from enactment of the Act.
Expected Economic
Growth in 2026. Withholding agents required to issue
Issuance of WHT
withholding tax certificates to payees at no cost
certificates
– effective from enactment of the Act.
Non-compliance with withholding certificate
requirements and submission of false and
Non-Compliance
misleading declarations may attract penalties
up to LKR 200,000 per year
– effective from enactment of the Act.
CGIR is authorized to specify the mandatory
procedures, formats, and forms for filing
Formats and forms
annual and quarterly withholding tax (WHT)
statements
– effective from enactment of the Act.
15

Tax Flash News June 2026
3f.
Acceptance of Individual Tax Returns Without further
Assessment
• From Year of Assessment commencing 01 April 2025, an
individual's tax Return will be accepted as filed, without the
issuance of an amended or additional assessment, provided all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
– A return declaring taxable income has been submitted, with tax
paid at not less than 120% of the previous year's tax;
– The full tax due has been paid without a request for a refund;
and
– An affidavit has been provided confirming no fraud, evasion, or
willful default.
5%
6.
Expected Economic
Growth in 2026.
7.
16

Tax Flash News June 2026
4a.
Court Proceedings for Tax in Default
• Effective from 1 April 2026, where a person fails to pay the taxes
due, the CGIR is empowered to submit a certificate including
particulars of the defaulter to the Magistrate’s Court.
• The above provisions were contested at the Supreme Court, and it
was determined that a certificate cannot be issued by CGIR where
an administrative review or an appeal to the TAC is pending.
4b.
Prosecution of Offenses
• From the enactment of the Act, failure to comply with key
obligations (e.g., filing Returns, annual statements, TIN
registration, attending meetings at IRD, etc.) may trigger
prosecution.
• The CGIR will issue a written notice granting 30 days to rectify
the non-compliance.
• Failure to comply with such notice without reasonable cause
constitutes an offence.
• On conviction, penalties may include a fine up to LKR 400,000,
imprisonment up to six months, or both.
• The Supreme Court upheld no constitutional inconsistency since
the CGIR provides a 30-day compliance window.
18

5. Residency, write off of
interest, definitions and
other amendments

Tax Flash News June 2026
5a.
Changes to the Residency
With effect from 1 April 2025;
• Non-Citizens Employed on Ships
Non-citizens working on a ship in Sri Lanka are taxed in Sri Lanka only
on income from that employment, even if treated as residents, and
such residency applies solely for the duration of their employment on
the ship.
• Individuals Departing for Overseas Employment
An individual who leaves Sri Lanka for overseas employment under a
contract of at least one year with an employer who is not associated
with the immediate Sri Lankan employer of the individual is treated as
a non-resident, from the start of the assessment year of departure
until the contract ends.
• Investor Category Residence Visa
The Act updates the reference previously made to the "Golden
Paradise Residence Visa" (which has been replaced) to the "Investor
Category Residence Visa.“ Holders of the Investor Category Residence
Visa are treated as non-residents for income tax purposes.
20

Tax Flash News June 2026
5b.
Head Office Expenditure
• A definition for Head Office Expenditure has been introduced to
the IRA.
5% 13.9%
5c.
Cancellation of Contracts — w.e.f. date of enactment
Estimated total tax revenue
• Where a person recognizes income on a cash basis and
to GDP in 2026
subsequently refunds that amount due to cancellation or alteration
of the original contract, an application for a refund of excess income
tax paid may be submitted within 30 months from the date of receipt
of the refund.
5d.
Gifts and Donations of Assets — w.e.f. date of
enactment
• The transfer of an asset by way of gift or donation to the
Government of Sri Lanka or a qualifying university shall be
treated as a realization at the net cost of the asset immediately
before the transfer.
21

Tax Flash News June 2026
5e.
Amendments to Third and Sixth Schedules to the
IRA
Third Schedule
• Government-Assisted Private Schools
A clear definition has been introduced to the term
“Government-assisted Private Schools”. These schools will remain
exempt from 1 April 2018.
• Interest on foreign loans
Interest on loans obtained from a person outside Sri Lanka is
exempt from 1 April 2025 income tax only if the
14.
– loan funds are brought into Sri Lanka in foreign currency through
a bank and
– used within Sri Lanka.
Sixth Schedule
• The 35% additional deduction previously available as a temporary
concession for information technology companies has been
removed with effect from 1 April 2025.
22

Tax Flash News June 2026
5f.
Write off – Interest
• The CGIR is empowered to write off any interest on
underpayments and late payments chargeable and remaining
outstanding up to the Year of Assessment ending 31 March 2025,
under the Inland Revenue Act, the Surcharge Tax Act No. 14 of
2022, and the Finance Act No. 35 of 2018 (Debt Repayment Levy).
• The original Bill limited this write-off power to the Year of
Assessment ending 31 March 2023; this was extended to 31 March
2025 as per the Act.
4b.
23

6. Amendments
Withdrawn /updated
The Inland Revenue (Amendment) Bill 2026 proposed
several significant amendments to the Inland Revenue
Act No. 24 of 2017. Five petitions challenging certain
provisions were heard by the Supreme Court on 2
April 2026. The key outcomes are summarized as
follows.

Tax Flash News June 2026
Amendments proposed in the Bill but
8.
withdrawn subsequently
Principal Act
Description
reference
Withdrawal of thin capitalization formula’s “Reserves”
interpretation. Definition proposed to include negative
Section 18
retained earnings, accumulated losses or deficits.
Clause 4 of the Bill
Withdrawal of amendments to governing the insurance
business and CGIR’s authority to set tax rules on SLFRS 17.
• Amendments were to be introduced in relation to the
method of calculating gains and profits from the life
insurance business. These changes included broadening
the scope of amounts that must be considered when
computing gains and profits, granting the CGIR authority
to prescribe necessary adjustments in instances where
Section 67
there are changes to the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards
applicable to life insurance operations.
• The above was withdrawn citing reasons such as it
containing broad terms such as “any amounts” and
“other similar form” which may result in uncertainty
regarding the charging section.
Clause 9 of the Bill
Proposed provisions specifying mandatory timelines for
producing documents requested by the CGIR — 6 months
Section 122
where documents are located in Sri Lanka, and 9 months if
located outside Sri Lanka — were withdrawn.
Clause 28 of the Bill
25
25

For More Details Contact:
Tax Team – KPMG in Sri Lanka
Connect With Us:
KPMG Sri Lanka @kpmgsrilanka
@kpmgsl @KPMGSriLanka
The information contained herein is of a general nature and is not intended to address the circumstances of
any particular individual or entity. Although we endeavor to provide accurate and timely information, there
can be no guarantee that such information is accurate as of the date it is received or that it will continue to be
accurate in the future. No one should act upon such information without appropriate professional advice after
a thorough examination of the particular situation.
© 2026 KPMG, a Sri Lankan partnership and a member firm of the KPMG global organization of independent
member firms affiliated with KPMG International Limited, a private English company limited by guarantee. All
rights reserved.
The KPMG name and logo are registered trademarks of KPMG International.