`
SEC/PN/IT/2026/03
08/06/2026
INLAND REVENUE DEPARTMENT
Notice to the Taxpayers
INTEREST RELIEF FOR UNDERPAYMENTS
AND LATE PAYMENTS
Under Section 42 of the Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2026,
interest charged on late payments or underpayments relating to the following tax
types shall be discharged, subject to the conditions set out below being fulfilled.
Taxes Covered
1. Income Tax including any form of Withholding Tax [Advance Personal
Income Tax, Pay As You Earn Tax, Advance Income Tax), Capital Gain Tax,
Remittance Tax or Non-Governmental Organizations Tax (NGO) Tax]
imposed under the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No.24 of 2017 (as
amended);
2. Surcharge Tax imposed under the provisions of the Surcharge Tax Act, No.
14 of 2022;
3. Debt Repayment Levy imposed under the provisions of the Finance Act,
No. 35 of 2018.
Conditions to Qualify for the Relief
1. The full tax amount (principal amount of tax) relating to an assessment —
including a self-assessment, default assessment, advance assessment,
amended assessment, or additional assessment — must be paid within six
months from the date of certification of the Inland Revenue (Amendment)
Act, No. 11 of 2026.
The Amendment Act was certified by Parliament on 03.06.2026.
Accordingly, the six-month period will expire on 02.12.2026. Therefore, the
final date for settlement of the full tax amount to qualify for this relief is
02.12.2026.
2. Any penalty relating to the assessment may be fully or partially waived by
the Commissioner-General upon consideration of reasonable cause on the
1

`
request of the taxpayer. Where any balance penalty is determined to be
payable, such amount must be settled on or before 02.12.2026.
Requests for waiver of penalty, together with the reasons considered just and
equitable, should be submitted in writing to the Commissioner of the relevant
unit or regional office after payment of the full tax amount.
3. This interest relief applies only up to and including the year of assessment
2024/2025. Accordingly, only assessments including self-assessment
relating to those years of assessment shall qualify for this relief.
Pending Tax Audits
If any self-assessment (Tax Return) relating to a year of assessment up to
2024/2025 is currently subject to a tax audit, the taxpayer may finalize the audit
before 02.12.2026 and fulfill the necessary requirements to qualify for the interest
relief. Necessary instructions have been provided to tax officials to expedite the
completion of such tax audits.
Pending Reviews or Appeals
If any assessment relating to a year of assessment up to 2024/2025 is pending
determination following a Request for Administrative Review (RAR) or appeal, the
taxpayer may settle the relevant assessment and comply with the above procedure
in order to obtain the benefit of this interest relief.
However, where a taxpayer wishes to continue disputing the assessment while also
making payment in order to qualify for this relief, the taxpayer may submit a written
request to the Commissioner-General together with the intention to claim a refund
if the final determination is made in the taxpayer’s favor.
Under Section 142 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017, even where a
taxpayer requests an Administrative Review or Appeals to the Tax Appeals
Commission, the tax assessed remains due and payable unless an extension of time
is granted under Section 151. Accordingly, the Commissioner-General may
continue recovery action while the review or appeal is pending.
Therefore, any payment made by the taxpayer on the above basis shall be treated as
tax collected, and any future refund shall be considered as a Commissioner
Generals Initiative [Section 150(4)(b)]. However, in these type of cases, any claim
for refund must be made within six months from the date of the final
determination.
 Necessary instructions have been issued to tax officials to expedite the
completion of tax audits and the settlement of appeals.
2

`
Important
 If you have already settled the liability equivalent to the principal amount as
at the date of this notice, you will qualify for this relief. However, you are
kindly requested to comply with the instructions relating to penalties.
 Any payment made as “interest” prior to 03.06.2026 will not be refunded.
 Where a payment made towards the principal tax amount has been
appropriated against outstanding interest, such recovered interest amount
will be transferred and credited towards the outstanding tax liability
(principal amount of tax).
The Inland Revenue Department urges all taxpayers to make effective use of this
relief and to ensure timely compliance in future without defaulting on tax payments.
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue
3